[size=12pt][b]超链者 章首故事[/b][/size]

保安狐疑地看了金克斯一眼。她平静地看着他第二次检查她的身份证，当它再次通过时，她皱起了眉头。

“这个设施是限制电磁信号的。您必须放弃您的通讯链和所有其他网络电子设备。任何企图——“

“我知道该怎么做，”她说着，交出了她的通讯链和其他一些小工具。门卫给了她一个“不许跟我顶嘴”的眼神，挥手让她进入扫描通道。她注意到他的右手从未在靠近枪的地方晃动过。看来我这副"公司工蜂"的样子没那么"公司"。

“这种扫描将检测所有的赛博植入体、隐藏武器和无线电子设备。如果你有什么东西需要申报为违禁品，请现在就申报。”他停顿了一下，好像真的非常希望她承认，是的，她带着武器并且很危险。可惜我没有。

他继续他的咆哮。“如果你是一名未注册的超链者，它还会炸掉任何防盗标签并检测到你的电磁信号。”

谢谢你的警告，她想，紧紧地咬住牙关努力保持着她的活体化身处于休眠模式。她等着扫描结果出来，然后慢悠悠地走进医院，向门卫闪过她最甜蜜的微笑。她看不见嵌入墙内的无线抑制材料，但她知道它在那里。

她花了很长时间在大厅里阔步前行，让人觉得她属于那里而且知道自己要去哪里。保持沉默的努力要了她的命。她的皮肤上起了鸡皮疙瘩，脑袋感觉很痒。

最后，她到达了她的目的地: 一个偏僻的储藏室，在一个低流量的场所躲避摄像头。它被一个简单但有效的磁锁保护着。她的内心在叫喊，想要穿过空间去触碰它，但她不敢这么做。不，她提醒自己。他们对设施内的无线电信号盯得太紧了。还好我不需要。她伸出手去碰了碰磁锁，并在她的脑海里唤起了共鸣的回声。她皮肤的生物电场渗入了装置，建立了联系。她感觉得到它。

磁锁的AR界面在她脑海中浮现出来。这个装置被安保系统控制着——就在她想去的地方。她的复合程式焕发出生机，在防火墙处发出微小的共鸣波动，感受着它的弱点和缺陷。它很强大，她能感觉到它的电子目光在寻找她，希望用它的数字聚光灯把她刺穿。它迫近了。就是那里, 她想，防火墙代码中的一个小漏洞。一个程序错误，制造了一个可以供人利用的漏洞。她的复合程式进入并拓宽了漏洞，她通过了。

金克斯仍然站在旁边的走廊里，触摸着磁锁，她的生体信号关掉了，她进来了。她在心里打量着她没有惊动警报就穿过的阻碍。她的程式记录了在系统中巡逻的蜘蛛和IC。到目前为止，他们还是看不见她。

她喊道，吉斯莫，她的网精。吉斯莫出现在一堆象形文字和代码碎片中。“在队伍进攻之前，我们有30秒的时间。”她向他示意。“让我们把这个地方变得一团糟。”

[spoiler]
[b]TECHNOMANCERS[/b]

The security guard gave Jinx a suspicious look. She watched calmly as he ran her ID a second time, frowning when it passed again. 

“This facility is EM-restricted. You must surrender your commlink and all other networking electronics.Any attempt to—” 

“I know the drill,” she said, handing over her commlink and a few other gadgets. The guard gave her a don’t-backtalk-me-bitch look and waved her into a scanner corridor. She noticed that his right hand neverwavered from near his firearm. Guess my corporate drone look isn’t so corporate after all. 

“This scan will detect all cybernetic implants, concealed weapons, and wireless-enabled electronics. If there’s anything you’d like to declare as contraband, please do so now.” He paused, as if he actually expected her to admit that yes, she was armed and dangerous. Yeah, right. Too bad I’m not. 

He continued his bluster. “It will also fry any arphid tags and detect your EM emissions if you are an unregistered technomancer.” 

Thanks for the warning, she thought, gritting her teeth at the effort of keeping her living persona in play-dead mode. She waited the scan out, then flashed the guard her sweetest smile as she sauntered into the facility. She couldn’t see the wireless-inhibiting material built into the walls, but she knew it was there. 

She took her time stalking the halls, making it look like she belonged there and knew exactly where she was going. The effort of running silent was killing her. Her skin crawled. Her brain itched. 

Finally, she reached her destination: an out-of-the-way storage room, hidden from cameras in a low traffic spot. It was guarded by a simple but effective maglock. Her mind cried out, wanting to reach through the ether and caress it, but she didn’t dare. No emitting, she reminded herself. They’re keeping too close an eye on radio transmissions inside the facility. Good thing I don’t need to. She reached her hand out and touched the maglock, calling up an echo of the Resonance in her mind. Her skin’s bioelectric field permeated the device, creating a connection. She felt it. 

The maglock’s AR interface came to life in her mind’s eye. The device was slaved to the security nexus-exactly where she wanted to be. Her complex forms sprang to life, pulsing small waves of Resonance at the firewall, feeling for its weak spots and flaws. It was strong, and she could feel its electronic gaze seeking her out, hoping to transfix her with its digital spotlight. It closed in. There, she thought. A minor crack in the firewall’s code. A programming error, creating a loophole to be exploited. Her complex forms reached in and widened the hole. She was through. 

Still standing in the side corridor, touching the maglock, her biological radio muted, Jinx was in. She mentally surveyed the chokepoint node she had penetrated without alarm. Her forms took note of spiders and IC patrolling the system. So far, she remained invisible to them. 

She called up, Gizmo, her sprite, who appeared in a burst of glyphs and code fragments. “We have thirty seconds before the team strikes,” she motioned to him. “Let’s trash this place.”
[/spoiler]
