[size=12pt][b]黑客手册 章首故事[/b][/size]

活塞的现实过滤器在她穿过花园时失效了，她完美编码的七彩多边形让位于一个程序员对浪漫的日本花园的梦想，她的图标现在穿着一套黑色忍者服。14世纪的石桥与在桥下小溪里游泳的21世纪锦鲤模型形成了鲜明的对比。行事过于草率，或者他们对安全性比对历史准确性更感兴趣。

当她分析节点上的图标时，活塞皱起了眉头。是IC，他们还没有发现她，那只有着七条尾巴的狐狸是她需要的安全控制的守门人。黑客从她身边的书包里拿出不倒翁。代理出现在她旁边，是一个穿深色西装的男人。

活塞小声地发出指令，让代理走向狐狸。这个代理显得有些僵硬，因为他的形象与周围的节点不太匹配，代理向这只狐狸展示了她破解的其中一个密码。狐狸看门人在处理密码让不倒翁通过之前，尾巴及时地抽动了一下。

代理一坐在华丽的茶几前就开始以精确模式运行脚本。活塞注意到那只狐狸仍在监视这位代理，但她现在已经不在乎了——她需要找出还有谁潜伏在附近。

就在这时，一只多色的东方龙滑进了她的视线，它模仿的鳞片和分形给真龙的苍白仿制品涂上了一层颜色。突然一阵风吹过花园，她的分析程序轻柔地发出信号告诉活塞，系统已进入主动警报状态。

不倒翁没有反抗那个抓住他后背的IC，这个IC使代理瘫痪，这样凶恶的安保黑客就可以用攻击程序轻松击毙代理。活塞默默地向代理告别，他的工作做得很好。当龙再次从她身边经过时，狐狸又恢复了原来的姿势，活塞耐心地等待风力减弱与主动警报的休止。

在她的隐藏程序的掩护下，活塞拿了一把刀——她的利用漏洞程序——绕过了狐狸，并把它穿过了茶馆的米色纸墙。几分钟后，她又以同样的方式溜了出来。她花了几分钟把纸墙上的裂痕补好——裂痕还在，只是藏起来了，不让人看见。

[i]毕竟，她若有所思地说，你永远不知道什么时候会再来这里。[/i]

[spoiler]
Pistons’s reality filter slipped and fizzled as she passed through the gateway, her perfect color-coded polygons giving way to a romantic programmer’s dream of a Japanese garden, her icon now wearing a black ninja gi. Fourteenth century stone bridges contrasted badly with the twenty-first century koi emulations swimming in the brooks beneath them. Sloppy work, or else they were more interested in security than historical accuracy. 

Whipping out a rice-paper fan, Pistons frowned as she analyzed the icons in the node. Intrusion countermeasures, but they haven’t detected her yet—and that fox with seven tails was the gatekeeper for the security controls she needed. Reaching into the satchel at her side, the hacker launched Tumblers. The agent appeared next to her as a man in a dark suit. 

Whispering instructions under her breath, Pistons sent Tumblers toward the fox construct. A little stiffly, his iconography not quite matching the surrounding node, the agent presented one of the passcodes she’d hacked for this run to the fox. The vulpine gatekeeper’s tails twitched in time as it processed the code before letting Tumblers pass.

Once the agent was seated at the ornate tea table, Tumblers started to run through his script, moving the controls in a precise pattern. Pistons noted that the fox program was still watching the agent, but she didn’t care about that now—she needed to find out who else was lurking nearby. 

Right on cue, a polychromatic Eastern dragon slithered into view, its mimetic scales and fractal coloring a pale imitation of the real thing. A sudden wind rustled through the garden, and the gentle ping from her Analyze program told Pistons the system had moved to Active Alert. 

Tumblers didn’t even fight the IC construct that latched onto his back, paralyzing the agent so the draconic security hacker could give the lazy kill-shot with an Attack program. Pistons bid a silent adieu to the agent, its job well done. As the dragon passed by her again and the fox resumed its previous stance, Pistons waited patiently for the wind to die down and the Active Alert to pass.

Cloaked by her Stealth program, Pistons took a knife—her Exploit program—and slipped it through the rice paper wall of the teahouse, bypassing the fox construct. A few minutes later, she slipped back out the same way, Tumblers’ work—and hers—now complete. She took a few minutes to patch up the rent in the rice paper—it was still there, but hidden from prying eyes.

[i]After all, she mused, you never know when you might be here again.[/i]
[/spoiler]
