
首先，让我们介绍一些最基本的基础知识。根据UnITy的说法，所有的信息传输和存储都会产生二次能量或粒子场。该理论用希腊词nous(意为“智能”)来形容这种能量。这种能量形成了目前的科学工具无法探测或测量的智能粒子场，但超链者的头脑对它们非常敏感。我认为这与法师对魔法的敏感类似；他们可以利用这种能量作为媒介，与现实世界的数据进行交互。共鸣和失谐可以被认为是这种能量的相反“两极”，分别与增长和衰退对应。这些智能粒子场结构覆盖并镜像了现实世界的数据结构，创建出一个被称为智能圈的矩阵镜像。超链者可以操纵智能圈内的智能粒子场，就像法师在星界中操纵魔法一样。这个行为会改变智能圈的结构，并在现实世界的数据中产生了镜像变化。

因此，对于结构层主机：智能圈覆盖了整个矩阵，不仅代表了它的当前状态，还包括了其所有历史状态的总和，因为信息更新并将旧智能结构移动到深结构层并最终进入共鸣域。这代表着巨大的，被表达为“智能”的能量储备，而这通常是无法获取的。结构层主机是通过在深结构层中插入一个传输管道(亨格斯特在百脑汇实验中开发的数字造物)来创建的。这形成了一个人造的共鸣/失谐井，带来了来自深结构层的能量。人工井内的力相互抵消，但它产生了一个空隙，在那里主机的外壳沿着固定的模式形成，就像珍珠围绕牡蛎内的一粒沙子形成一样。传输管道引导这种增长并成为空节点，构建主机基础的其余部分，最终形成主机脚手架。它将永久停留在主机基础中，从深结构层中汲取并为上层主机提供能量。

[spoiler]
[size=14pt][b]XXXXXXXXXXXXX[/b][/size]

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

First, let’s cover some of the basic basics. According to UnITy, all information transmission and storage create a secondary energy or particle field. The theory uses the Greek word nous (meaning “intellect”) for this energy. This energy forms into nous-particle fields that can’t be detected or measured with current scientific tools, but the minds of technomancers are sensitive to them. I believe it’s similar to the way mages are sensitive to mana; they can use this energy as a medium to interact with real-world data. Resonance and Dissonance can be thought of as the opposite “poles” of this energy, aligned to growth and decay respectively. These nous-particle field constructs overlay and mirror the data structures of the real world, creating a mirror of the Matrix called the noosphere. Technomancers can manipulate the nous-particle fields within the noosphere much like a mage manipulates mana in the astral. This changes the structures of the noosphere and creates mirrored changes in real-world data.

So, regarding Foundation hosts: the noosphere overlays the entire Matrix and represents not just its current state, but the sum of all historic states as information updates and moves the older nous structures into the Deep Foundation and eventually into the Resonance Realms. This represents enormous reserves of energy, expressed as “nous” and not normally accessible. Foundation hosts are created by inserting a transfer circuit (a digital artifact developed by Hengester from experiments on the one hundred) into the Deep Foundation. This forms an artificial Resonance/Dissonance well, bringing up energy from the Deep Foundation. Forces within the artificial well cancel each other out, but it creates a void where the host shell forms along a set pattern, much like pearls form around a grain of sand inside an oyster. The transfer circuit guides this growth and becomes the null node, building out the rest of the host Foundation and eventually forming the host scaffolding. It stays in place permanently within the host Foundation, drawing energy from the Deep Foundation to power the upper host.
[/spoiler]